objective

Seeking a data scientist job to build smart semantic data products through machine learning and large-scale natural language processing.

work experience

Data Scientist, HG Data, Santa Barbara, CA,  Apr 2016 – Jul 2017
1. Architected and implemented new data models and data processes in production to improve internal data pipelines and generate insights for external customers with an understanding of the product goals.

2. Prototyped and deployed machine learning/statistical analysis models and features extraction.
3. Collected, cleaned, aggregated, and extracted knowledge from unstructured text data by web scraping and utilizing Natural Language techniques.
4. Worked with data engineers to build large-scale applications using threading, Spark and MapReduce。

Data Scientist Intern (part-time), HG Data, Santa Barbara, CA, Oct 2015 - Mar 2016
1. Automated classification task to expedite manual data operation procedure.
2. Explored potential use of the data and new verticals through quantitative analysis and statistical modeling.


Work Projects

Web-Snippets (Python, Spark/Scala), HG Data
• Significantly expedite the customer’s data collecting process by providing extracted knowledge about
mergers & Acquisitions from 5000 hospital websites.
• Collaborated with data engineers to crawl and parse 37 million raw sentences, utilized NLP tools e.g.
regex, POS tagging for cleaning and filtering invalid sentences.
• Predicted potential M&A sentences (high recall required) by building text classification models in scikit-
learn and spark ML libraries, customized SMOTE cross-validation for handling imbalanced classes.

URL Classifier (Python), HG Data
• Ensured data quality by checking each URL through connection request, searching the webpage content
for patterns to identify it as good or bad/junk URL.
• Process 16.4 million URLs by using multi-threading and Hadoop streaming job on AWS EMR.
• Gained first-hand experience of handling special cases e.g. streaming websites, redirects, regex issues, etc Company Segmentation(Python), HG Data
• Assisted data operation team to classify companies into categories like staffing/consulting, technology/
general based on their website content
• Crawled and parsed company websites for text, cleaned and normalized text features, implemented text
classification and selection via cross-validation.

Mention-to-Entity (Java), HG Data
• Solved entity recognition problem by utilizing Wikifier 2.0 from UIUC Cogcomp Group to link clean
mentions extracted from raw text documents to Wikipedia pages.

Merger & Acquisition Prediction (Python), HG Data
• Explored the predictive power of our data in new verticals such as financial industry.
• Collected data using Elasticsearch, created quantitative features to predict the likelihood of a M&A event
between two companies in the future.

Education

University of California-Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA      Oct 2014 - Mar 2016
M.A. in Statistics      GPA: 3.87/4.00
Iowa State University, Ames, IA    Aug 2009 - Dec 2013
B.S. Double Major in Finance and Statistics     GPA: 3.65/4.00


Online Courses

Deep Learning (Udacity)


Skills

Proficient in Python (e.g. numpy, scipy, pandas, scikit-learn, requests, beautifulsoup, etc.)
Hands-on experience with Java, Spark, MySQL, AWS, Hadoop, Elasticsearch"

Previous Experience

Department of Statistics & Applied Probability, UCSB, CA     Oct 2014 - Mar 2016
Teaching Assistant (part-time)
• Led students through lab sessions for courses such as Introductory Statistics and SAS Programming.